Hello, App Store developers.
I'm Greg from
the App Store Review team.
Today we're going to share
some best practices
for creating great apps
that do more for users
while collecting
less of their data.
At Apple,
we believe that privacy
is a fundamental human right
and Apple products
are designed to protect privacy
and give users control
over their information.
In addition to designing
our products
with privacy protections,
privacy is central in the
App Store Review Guidelines.
Guideline 5.1.1 in particular
details some requirements
that are essential for
protecting users' information
in the Apple ecosystem.
Improving your app's privacy
practices won't only help you
prevent issues in review,
though.
Users prefer apps
that respect their privacy.
So today we're going to share
three tips that will help you
build great apps that put users
in control of their data.
Our first tip:
where possible,
delay sign-in flows
or remove them altogether.
Next, limit the data
your app requests
to only what is necessary.
And last, be ready
with an alternative
when users decline
to share their data.
Along the way,
we'll share concrete examples
that'll help you get started.
So let's start with signing in.
Wherever possible, let users
enjoy your app without it.
People prefer to go without
accounts where possible.
They want to get
to the action quickly,
and forcing people to sign in
before they can do anything
useful can be discouraging.
To keep users engaged,
let them explore your app.
Don't include a login if there's
no need for an account
or delay the login until
the app's account-based features
come into play.
For example, a sporting goods
app might allow the public
to freely browse their products
until a user wants
to purchase an item.
This allows users to enjoy
the app without sharing
personal data until there's
a specific need for it.
Our second tip is limit
the data you request
to just what your app needs.
Data minimization is a pillar
of Apple's approach to privacy,
and we encourage app developers
like you to adopt it as well.
Ask yourself,
what features do I want
to deliver to my app's users?
And then, what's the minimum
amount of data I need
to make this feature great?
By asking yourself
these questions
early in your
development process,
you won't end up asking
users for data you don't need.
Let's see what this can
look like for users
in registration flows
when apps try to access
a protected resource.
In registration flows,
we talked about
when it makes sense to ask
new users to register.
Next, consider what data you ask
for in the registration flow.
Information you request
should be essential
for your app to function,
or else, required by law.
So let's look at an app that's
asking for more than they need.
Here we have a registration page
for a shopping app.
Looks like all fields
are required.
Requiring the address makes
sense since they'll need it
to send me my orders,
but why would they need
to know my birthday
or whether I'm married or not?
Well, it turns out
this app has a feature
that sends coupons
to users on their birthday.
While the coupons
might be a nice perk,
people can still enjoy
the main shopping functionality
without the app knowing
when they were born.
But there are no features
tied to marital status,
so that should be
removed altogether.
And since knowing
a user's date of birth
isn't essential
for the app to function,
it shouldn't require
all new users to provide it.
Instead, this should be a
clearly labeled optional field.
Including a brief,
transparent description
of how the birth date
will be used
will also help people
make an informed choice.
Similarly, be careful
when requesting
sensitive personal data like
health and financial information
or national ID numbers.
Only relevant app types
with a critical or legal need
for this information,
like medical or banking apps,
should ask for it
with a clear explanation
of how the data will be used
and stored.
After reviewing
your app's needs,
you might find that your app
actually doesn't need
much data from users
to authenticate their account.
In that case, instead of
a long registration process,
consider offering
Sign in with Apple
as a privacy-focused
alternative.
With Sign in with Apple,
users spend less time
filling out forms
or registering emails
and can quickly start enjoying
what your app has to offer.
In addition to registration,
many apps use device resources
which are protected by default
on Apple operating systems.
This means if you want to do
things like use the microphone,
communicate
with Bluetooth devices,
or use location services,
you'll need to ask
for the user's permission first.
Our recommendation here
is the same:
only ask for what you need.
This advice applies
to all protected resources
on Apple devices.
Here are some more examples.
Many apps offer an option
to select a photo
for a profile page.
But if this is your app's
only use for Photos,
you don't need to request access
to every photo
the user has ever taken.
Instead, a better fit for your
app's needs is photo picker,
so users can quickly select
the perfect photo
for their profile without
providing more access
than is required.
Photo picker can
also be configured
for selecting multiple photos
or capturing photos and video.
You may have
a chat messaging app
and are thinking about
requesting access to Contacts
to help people
connect with their friends.
We have another idea for you.
Similar to photo picker,
you can configure
a view controller
for selecting contacts,
letting users select
the one or more contacts
they'd like to connect with.
For some apps, only a few
features rely on location data.
Rather than prompting
the location permission request
at launch, consider adding
a Share Current Location button
right in your app's experience.
When people tap the button,
your app will receive access
to their location for that
session, just like Allow Once,
and will last until
they leave the app.
This gives people
a low-commitment option
when they use your app.
Like other protected resources,
data in the Health app
can be accessed with the user's
permission through HealthKit.
The Health app contains
sensitive, personal information
and your app should
have an appropriate reason
for trying to access this data.
If your app doesn't have any
health or fitness features
that would require this data,
make sure your app doesn't
include the HealthKit framework
or any references to it.
Otherwise, your app
may not pass review.
And don't forget
most permission requests
include a purpose string.
Purpose strings are
short messages provided by you
in your app's info p-list
describing how your app
will use the requested data.
Writing clear purpose strings
helps users
make informed decisions.
For more tips
on writing purpose strings,
check out the links
associated with this video.
The main takeaway here is
to think critically
about what data
your app really needs
and, wherever you can,
build apps that require less.
This leads us to our third tip:
get creative with alternatives
that still provide
great experiences when users
decline to share their data.
People expect apps
to still function
when they decide
not to share their data.
Apps that don't
create a poor user experience
and may not pass review.
Anticipate that
some users will decline
to have their data collected.
Others may be using devices
with parental controls activated
or other restricted
privacy settings
limiting access
to certain resources;
be ready with an alternative.
If someone prefers not to share
their location data,
let them manually input an
address or postal code instead.
When people would rather not
take a photo of themselves,
some apps let users
customize an avatar,
giving their profiles
a personalized touch
without sharing more data
than they need to.
Also, keep in mind,
if the user decides
to not grant permission
to access a protected resource,
it's important
to respect their decision.
Don't include messages
in your app
asking them
to change their mind.
If they try to use a feature
that requires access
to a protected resource, though,
it can be appropriate
to include a message
letting them know
they can change
their permission choices
in the Settings app.
Those are our tips
for doing more with less data.
Incorporating these practices
early in your development
process will not only help you
avoid delays in review,
your users will appreciate
the steps you've taken
to respect their privacy.
We think these privacy
best practices
will help your app collect less
while delivering a satisfying,
feature-rich experience.
Thanks for watching our video.
If you're interested
in learning more about
Apple's approach to privacy
and other best practices,
check out the other videos
on the Apple Developer
website and app.